# Introduction : 

The field of verification develops proportionally to advancements in transistor packaging and technological nodes. Design Verification (DV) is an invaluable step in any design flow. DV is an exhaustive stage that occurs in several steps of a flow to ensure and validate the quality of the design under test, which is essential to moving forward in the design flow without being concerned about potential design flaws. Overall, design verification is an essential phase in a design process that helps to guarantee semiconductor chips are dependable, function as expected, and satisfy the criteria of the applications for which they are intended. To fully validate the design, a variety of methodologies, tools, and techniques are used. Among the different design verification approaches, timing verification  has garnered tremendous attention.

Timing analysis refers to the breakdown of  information flow in a design that takes the form of signals and determines if the design satisfies the intended timing constraints while preserving its integrity. The scaling of the devices creates a need for timing analysis. Metal interconnects are used to connect the logical building blocks in a design. As process technology advances, the performance of the device is seriously threatened due to the metal interconnects. The operating speed of a design might be restricted by either noise or crosstalk caused by the coupling in the interconnects and vias. Although these effects are insignificant in older generation technology, noise and coupling effects are crucial in nanoscale technologies. Hence, the physical design must consider the significance of timing analysis in the design verification and should include the effects of crosstalk and noise. Timing analysis is primarily undertaken using two methodologies, namely Static and Dynamic timing analysis.

Timing analysis aids in ensuring that signals reach their intended destination within predetermined time frames. This is vital for high-speed applications like those on smartphones. Circuit failures or mistakes can result from timing failures. Consider that a timing failure caused an airbag in a car to deploy too late; the results may be disastrous. Timing analysis facilitates identification and resolving such problems at early stages.
In this study, the primary focus for the timing analysis will revolve around Static timing analysis (STA) and the concepts that solidifies the popularity of STA over other timing analysis methodologies. STA is a vast horizon of possibilities for timing analysis and optimization of design for a proper timing closure, hence this study limits itself only towards the most vital concepts. The sole purpose of this study is to provide a systematic review of STA and the kindred concepts, while also highlighting the limitless potential of STA in a design and its role in a design flow. 
